[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Arrays, so
what do we know about arrays?
>> Speaker 2: Container.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Array is a container,
just like an object,
it's a data structure.
[CROSSTALK] Yeah, so
we can have an ordered list in our array.
>> Speaker 2: You can nest them.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
you can nest them.
You can save any data type as a value
in your array just like an object.
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Anything else?
>> Speaker 3: An array is an object?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
an array is as an object.
If you're coming from an object
oriented language, you could
think of an array as a subclass of an
object in that it inherits from an object.
If that doesn't mean anything to you,
don't worry about it, but
that might sort of clarify for
those who've had that background.
We have arrays.
Arrays are a data structure.
They're another data structure that
comes out of a box with JavaScript.
We tend to use them for
things that are ordered because of
the numerical indicies gives us just
a natural way because numbers are ordered.
It's a natural way to keep things
in order versus objects when
we tend to have string properties
that don't have an inherent order.
But at it's core, what's important to
note is that an array is an object and
so the rules are going to be the same.
We're gonna explore that and
then we're gonna talk a lot
about how arrays are objects.
And then we're gonna talk a little
bit about how arrays are different
than objects.
Cool.
Just an overview, arrays versus objects,
we're gonna be talking about access &&
assignments, we're gonna be talking
about native methods && properties.
When I say native, all I mean is it comes
with a language, cuz there's some methods
that you get from libraries, such as
the underscore library, which we'll cover
tomorrow but there's also methods
that just come out of the box.
You can just open your console and
say like, array dot and then,
actually that's not working.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then you can say array dot, and
then we have all of these methods
that just come out of the box.
Some of them you might be familiar with.
And then we're also gonna talk
about iteration techniques and
how they're different for
arrays and the same.
when would we use an array
versus an object?
When would you choose to
use one versus the other?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
if you want it to be ordered.
>> Speaker 2: Doesn't
have named properties.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
if it doesn't make sense for
it to have named properties,
like maybe you have like a bunch of names.
You could say var names equals and
then you could put like the names of.
Here let me put that up and
then you could put the names of your pets.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Whatever
your pets are.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Does
anyone have a pet, pet name?
>> Speaker 4: Wonder Woman.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Wonder Woman?
That's a good one.
This just makes sense for it to be a
series, can you guys see that in the back?
Because it's all the same thing,
they're all names, so you wouldn't want to
say like var names and
then have an array and just be like name1.
That's not adding to the data, that's just
adding extra data that's not important.
Maybe they're all the same thing, you
don't need a key-value pair, it's ordered.
What else?
Maybe you want to use the array
methods that come with it.
Maybe you want to be able to sort,
maybe you want to do something
with the length property.
What else?
That's all I can think of right now.
But yeah, so there's certain use cases for
arrays and objects and so
you need to choose wisely.